1933 - Hitler's Promotion

Hitler, now a fixture within the German military, which is one of the many industrial complexes influenced by SN, keeps being completely horrible wherever he ends up, and making a spectacular mess of everything. These tantrums and disruptions are so legendary, they often make it back to Jake's desk. He always deals with the problem by getting whichever department is complaining to "promote" him to higher and higher positions, so he gets out of everyone's hair. No one ever wants to fire him because of the insane tantrum he would throw. Jake just shrugs along with it, until Hindenburg finally asks Jake what he should do about this Hitler guy. Jake tells him to just promote him to a useless bullshit title like "chancellor" and to stop fucking bothering him about Hitler forever, please. They decide to throw a fake election to justify his new phony position as chancellor, and that's that.

Meanwhile, Laurel is in so deep, so obsessed and manipulated by HIC as her right hand, he's not acting in any way as a double agent anymore. Laurel does all her dirty work, serves all her grim purposes, but continues making films with Hardy, mainly because she insists on it. She loves the films. Hardy continues being her sex slave. She often fornicates with him very loudly and aggressively while Laurel is in the other room, in earshot. Hardy's life is becoming increasingly miserable, but he must put on a brave face as a fat and jolly funnyman. 

Chaplin tries to recall Laurel from the operation, but Laurel won't comply. He's conflicted, ashamed to admit to his master, but he cannot leave HIC, due to his personal feelings, as well as the fact that she would likely kill Hardy if he did. Chaplin understands. He is now deeply depressed, for this reason, but also due to his experience with Jake. His affair with Jake lasted for several years, but ultimately, Jake toyed with his heart, and abandoned him. Chaplin continues to perform for years, but ceases his work with Karno's Army, which is now a shell of its former self. There are no orphans in training, and virtually no active agents remaining. 

Jane meanwhile has been aggressively courting Laurel. She hates HIC, has always had her eye on Laurel, and this is her way of acting out. Laurel, continually rebuffed by HIC for affection and recognition, succumbs to Jane's advances, and nervously pursues torrid affair with her for many years thereafter, under the nose of HIC.
