1965 - Laurel's Last Stand

Laurel (75) is out in the world, wandering around with this awful baby. It makes nasty burbling noises. He is repulsed by it. He thinks of Jane, of the life he could have had. The amount he's suffered for HIC. His tears drip onto baby Fieri, who responds with more gross noises. He comes to grim realization, he may need to set up another series of underground orphanages, like the one he grew up in, to raise and train these little shits. He is dismayed at this thought, but it is interrupted.

Chaplin (76) ambushes him. He has finally caught up with him, to make him pay for his crimes. He has brought his young apprentice and adopted son, Harry Anderson (13), who has been training intensively in the way of the vaudeville assassin. He looks angry, determined. Has been taught to loathe traitors of the army. There is a standoff. Minutes of silence, as they all size each other up. Laurel says, fuck it, let's do this. He tosses baby Fieri on the ground without any concern for injuring it. Chaplin nods slightly. Harry flies into action, screaming. Very intense fight between Laurel and Harry ensues. Laurel stunned at his ability. CHRIST, what kind of moves have you been teaching this kid? Just a few new techniques he's been working on. Stuff Laurel never got a chance to learn, since he was so busy spending most of his life as a traitor. 

It's a very even match. They pull guns on each other. Shoot, miss, throw playing cards, do other magic tricks, beat each other bloody. Finally Harry gets the best of him. Laurel curses his old body. He can't keep up with this punk. He gasps, tries to get up. Chaplin calls off Harry, says this is his fight to finish. Chaplin deeply regretful as he pulls out his gun, tears streaming down his face. He thanks Laurel for his service. Kills him.

Harry is bloody and injured, but shows concern for the dropped baby. He picks it up, sees a little dog tag around its neck. "Guy", huh? Well, you're free of those awful people now. I'll take care of you. Harry raises and apprentices Guy Fieri, with the blessing of his wise old master.
