1863-1965 - Post-Scratch Timeline

The prototype timeline is finished. It served its purpose, both for HIC and her master. Many details are different, but she doesn't care. Humans always obsessed with details, details, details. The results are what matter. Power is what matters. She mostly duplicates the previous results, with less nonsense this time. 

HIC travels to new timeline by entering the Sburb session, traveling through one of the gates during the scratch, and lands on Earth around the same time she did before, in 1863. Most post-scratch details are inconsequential until John and Jade arrive.

John and Jade land in 1910 instead of Jake and Jane. John stays home and plays Jane's role as an heir, rather than heiress. Laurel remained infatuated with HIC, but had little to do with John. Chaplin pursued affair with Jade instead of Jake, which lasted for a longer time and instilled in her the sense of rebellion against HIC, while playing a similar role of heiress to SN that Jake played. Ultimately, HIC killed Jade for her constant insubordination, but not a moment before necessary, so as to let the timeline play out.

Otherwise, everything proceeds mostly the same, as precisely controlled by HIC to fit the original timeline events as closely as she could force them to play out. For instance, Jane cannot sire a son with Laurel in this timeline, so she uses that son's DNA to covertly impregnate John's future wife at the exact needed moment, so that son will grow up to be the father who this timeline's Jane will need. HIC knows later another session will begin that is essential to her plans to move on from this planet, conquer a new universe, and free herself from her master once and for all. 

She knows Jane will show up in 1996, and will prepare the world for her arrival. Her grooming in the previous timeline was essentially just practice. This time it will count, and she will groom a fitting heiress to her empire. Jake will arrive in 1996 too, but she's sick and fucking tired of this dude, and he will have no valuable role in her plans except to be groomed as a serviceable slave to the heiress. The other two kids are set to arrive about four centuries after that, once her conquest of Earth has been absolute. They are only necessary to open the game session which she will enter and occupy. Otherwise, they are trivial to her. 
