 because some anon asked me to do it and i am slow in typing things so here is how to roleplay john at least it’s how i roleplay john because everyone does things somewhat differently?? 

 but how i interpret his canon personality i guess. 
 okay so 
 
 1. it’s not all about con air. research movies. 
 seriously, it’s not. 
 
 john loves con air. john watches con air a lot. but it’s not the only movie he references. there are other posters hanging up in his room!! 

 he seems to really like action movies, if you don’t know many than wiki up some of the plots or watch them yourself if you like! john just…likes movies. he likes watching them, referencing them, talking about them. just not singularly con air. that movie does have a very special place to him, and he’s always eager to get people to watch it. 
 watch some movies mi amigo. just get your cinematography knowledge boned up on. 

 2. john is not a stupid shy woobie child. 
 i’ve seen so many overly dense and stupid johns that i could make a very bad taste joke about it. he’s a bit naive, but he’s not an idiot. he’s pretty astute, fairly sharp with his tongue, and does use a fair amount of big words!! not nearly as complex as kanaya or rose, but he still does occasionally have some sophisticated language up in there! he’s a fair bit imaginative as well, almost like a calmer jade. 

 john also has quite the backbone. he is friends with people like dave and karkat after all! and they’re both pretty verbally abusive to most of the people they talk to. john and dave usually always playfully banter back and forth in their texts. in their first conversations, john even calls him numbnuts. don’t be afraid to insult your striders a little bit guys. he really likes teasing karkat too. sometimes john can even seem a little bit insensitive in his commentary, sometimes he even comes off as the smallest bits of arrogant.

 also don’t forget things make john angry. betty crocker is the easiest example of this. 

 3. on “not a homosexual” please, i beg of you, if you are going down that route, don’t swap his sexual preference at the slightest flick of a lightswitch on the first karkat who makes a pass at him. sexuality is very fluid, but it also takes time to develop. let john spend time with that karkat, or that dave, or that whoever boy. as friends. like someone who claims with finality that they aren’t a homosexual. let their relationship develop. realistically, john isn’t going to go “i’m not gay!!” and have straight bro makeouts with another guy, suddenly realizing that he actually is!! 

 you of course don’t really have to go down that path. (my john is aged up a tad from canon, and in that time came to terms with his attraction to men, but he would still be at least pansexual.) 

 it’s all up to you. even canonically, sexuality is not staunchly fluid. but please don’t pull a yaoi. please don’t make it seem like one can say they aren’t gay and retract that claim within moments of a batted eyelash. it’s not that simple, and if you aren’t willing to go through that development of relationship, then i strongly suggest you just bypass the whole “no homo” thing entirely. (ok class is ending now so part 2 will come later maybe depending on who actually may perhaps read this???) 